note_about_merging_operations.md, before:

## History

The code was originally written to make a conformer by merging as opposed to by mapping each combination.

The automerging route was therefore built on top of it.

The `_VictorAutomergeMixin` contains the automerging code,
most notably the classmethod `combine`.
This uses `merge_hits` from the main class, written first.

Then to address the problem of rings merging oddly, the ring collapse functionality was added
and can be found in `_collapse_ring`.

Then the ring rejoining algorithm was tweaked to bond by default by proximity and not memory.
Now the rings are bonded by memory if original, by proximity if novel.

Then to address odd bonding, the class `Rectifier` was added.
This is a class called by Fragmenstein and not inherited.

However, the ring collapse code deals with odd ring sizes.

## Mapping
Also, mapping is done by the class `GPM` in `positional_mapping.py`.
This is used by both SMILES no-merging mode and the automerging mode.

## Future idea
This is all a bit messy. 

~One _likely_ future change is moving ring corrections to `Rectifier`.~ —Done.

Furthermore, the module is called `fragmenstein`,
which contains a class `Fragmenstein`, yet the pipeline is called `Victor`.

One _possible_ future change could be to break up the class `Fragmenstein`
into its two main modes (no-merge SMILES and automerging) and
removing the less productive options. 

Feedback welcome!

Commit message:

:hammer: throw_on_discard now acts on Unmergge

note_about_merging_operations.md, after:

## History

The code was originally written to make a conformer by merging as opposed to by mapping each combination.

The automerging route was therefore built on top of it.

The `_VictorAutomergeMixin` contains the automerging code,
most notably the classmethod `combine`.
This uses `merge_hits` from the main class, written first.

Then to address the problem of rings merging oddly, the ring collapse functionality was added
and can be found in `_collapse_ring`.

Then the ring rejoining algorithm was tweaked to bond by default by proximity and not memory.
Now the rings are bonded by memory if original, by proximity if novel.

Then to address odd bonding, the class `Rectifier` was added.
This is a class called by Fragmenstein and not inherited.

However, the ring collapse code deals with odd ring sizes.

## Mapping
Also, mapping is done by the class `GPM` in `positional_mapping.py`.
This is used by both SMILES no-merging mode and the automerging mode.

## Add to documentation somewhere
If the `no_merge` is unable to make a compound with `fragmenstein_throw_on_discard = True`
consider doing the following:

    from fragmenstein.core import Unmerge
    Unmerge.max_strikes = 100
    Unmerge.distance_cutoff = 100

This disables the safeties on problematic overlaps and how much to tollerate a bond.

## Future idea
This is all a bit messy. 

~One _likely_ future change is moving ring corrections to `Rectifier`.~ —Done.

Furthermore, the module is called `fragmenstein`,
which contains a class `Fragmenstein`, yet the pipeline is called `Victor`.

One _possible_ future change could be to break up the class `Fragmenstein`
into its two main modes (no-merge SMILES and automerging) and
removing the less productive options. 

Feedback welcome!
